Add OAuth 2.0 dynamic client registration (#2148)
matrix-org/matrix-spec: content/client-server-api/_index.md

{{% json-schema name="oauth2-client-metadata" %}}

###### Metadata localization

As per [RFC 7591 section 2.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7591#section-2.2),
all the human-readable metadata values MAY be localized.

The human-readable values include:
- `client_name`
- `logo_uri`
- `tos_uri`
- `policy-uri`

For example:

```json
{
  "client_name": "Digital mailbox",
  "client_name#en-US": "Digital mailbox",
  "client_name#en-GB": "Digital postbox",
  "client_name#fr": "Boîte aux lettres numérique",
  "tos_uri": "https://example.com/tos.html",
  "tos_uri#fr": "https://example.com/fr/tos.html",
  "policy_uri": "https://example.com/policy.html",
  "policy_uri#fr": "https://example.com/fr/policy.html"
}
```

###### Redirect URI validation

The redirect URI plays a critical role in validating the authenticity of the
client. The client "proves" its identity by demonstrating that it controls the
redirect URI. This is why it is critical to have strict validation of the
redirect URI.

The `application_type` metadata is used to determine the type of client.

In all cases, the redirect URI MUST NOT have a fragment component.

**Web clients**

`web` clients can use redirect URIs that:

> - MUST use the `https` scheme
> - MUST NOT use a user or password in the authority component of the URI
> - MUST use the client URI as a common base for the authority component, as
>   defined previously
> - MAY include an `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` formatted query component

Reviewer: House style ends list items with "."

```suggestion
- MUST use the `https` scheme.
- MUST NOT use a user or password in the authority component of the URI.
- MUST use the client URI as a common base for the authority component, as
  defined previously.
- MAY include an `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` formatted query component.
```

Author: Applied.

> For example, with `https://example.com/` as the client URI,
> 
> These are valid redirect URIs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, with `https://example.com/` as the client URI,  the following are valid redirect URIs:
```

Author: Applied.

- `https://example.com/callback`
- `https://app.example.com/callback`
- `https://example.com:5173/?query=value`

> These are invalid redirect URIs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the same client URI, the following are invalid redirect URIs:
```

Author: Applied.

- `https://example.com/callback#fragment`
- `http://example.com/callback`
- `http://localhost/`

**Native clients**

`native` clients can use three types of redirect URIs:

> 1. Private-Use URI Scheme:

Reviewer: Suggest making the names of the URI types bold, and dropping the `:`, to make them work as headings.

```suggestion
1. **Private-Use URI Scheme**
```

>   - the scheme MUST be prefixed with the client URI hostname in reverse-DNS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The scheme MUST be prefixed with the client URI hostname in reverse-DNS
```

Author: Applied.

>   - the scheme MUST be prefixed with the client URI hostname in reverse-DNS

Reviewer: As well as the other edits, the inner lists need more indentation: currently it is being rendered as three separate `<ol>` elements.

Author: Indeed, fixed.

    notation. For example, if the client URI is `https://example.com/`, then a
    valid custom URI scheme would be `com.example.app:/`.

>   - the URI MUST NOT have an authority component. This means that it MUST have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - There MUST NOT be an authority component. This means that the URI MUST have
```

    either a single slash or none immediately following the scheme, with no
    hostname, username, or port.

> 2. `http` URI on the loopback interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **`http` URI on the loopback interface**
```

Author: Applied.

>   - it MUST use the `http` scheme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The scheme MUST be `http`.
```

Author: Applied.

>   - the host part MUST be `localhost`, `127.0.0.1`, or `[::1]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The host part MUST be `localhost`, `127.0.0.1`, or `[::1]`.
```

Author: Applied.

>   - it MUST have no port. The homeserver MUST then accept any port number during

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - There MUST NOT be a port.
  The homeserver MUST then accept any port number during
```

    the authorization flow.

> 3. Claimed `https` Scheme URI: some operating systems allow apps to claim

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Claimed `https` Scheme URI**

   Some operating systems allow apps to claim
```

Author: Applied.

  `https` scheme URIs in the domains they control. When the browser encounters a
  claimed URI, instead of the page being loaded in the browser, the native app
  is launched with the URI supplied as a launch parameter. The same rules as for
  `web` clients apply.

These restrictions are the same as defined by [RFC 8252 section 7](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8252#section-7).

For example, with `https://example.com/` as the client URI,

These are valid redirect URIs:
- `com.example.app:/callback`
- `com.example:/`
- `com.example:callback`
- `http://localhost/callback`
- `http://127.0.0.1/callback`
- `http://[::1]/callback`

These are invalid redirect URIs:
- `example:/callback`
- `com.example.app://callback`
- `https://localhost/callback`
- `http://localhost:1234/callback`

##### Dynamic client registration flow

To register, the client sends an HTTP `POST` request to the

> `registration_endpoint`, which can be found in the server metadata. The body of

Author: I could do it now and then we just need to merge #2147 before this?

the request is the JSON client metadata.

For example, the client could send the following registration request:

```http
POST /register HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json
Server: auth.example.com
```

```json
{
  "client_name": "My App",
  "client_name#fr": "Mon application",
  "client_uri": "https://example.com/",
  "logo_uri": "https://example.com/logo.png",
  "tos_uri": "https://example.com/tos.html",
  "tos_uri#fr": "https://example.com/fr/tos.html",
  "policy_uri": "https://example.com/policy.html",
  "policy_uri#fr": "https://example.com/fr/policy.html",
  "redirect_uris": ["https://app.example.com/callback"],
  "token_endpoint_auth_method": "none",
  "response_types": ["code"],
  "grant_types": [
    "authorization_code",
    "refresh_token",
    "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange"
  ],
  "application_type": "web"
}
```

Upon successful registration, the server replies with an `HTTP 201 Created`
response, with a JSON object containing the allocated `client_id` and all the
registered metadata values.

> With the previous registration request, the server would reply with:

Author: Applied.
